[docs] Add brownfield instructions using create-expo-app (#39164)
expo/expo: docs/pages/brownfield/integration-with-existing-apps.mdx

require File.join(File.dirname(`node --print "require.resolve('react-native/package.json')"`), "scripts/react_native_pods")

require 'json'

platform :ios, '15.1'
install! 'cocoapods',
  :deterministic_uuids => false

prepare_react_native_project!

target 'HelloWorld' do
  use_expo_modules!({projectRoot: project_root})

  config_command = [
    'npx',
    'expo-modules-autolinking',
    'react-native-config',
    '--json',
    '--platform',
    'ios',
    '--project-root',
    project_root,
    '--source-dir',
    "#{__dir__}"
  ]
  config = use_native_modules!(config_command)

  use_frameworks! :linkage => ENV['USE_FRAMEWORKS'].to_sym if ENV['USE_FRAMEWORKS']

  use_react_native!(
    :path => config[:reactNativePath],
    :hermes_enabled => true,
    # An absolute path to your application root.
    :app_path => "#{project_root}",
    :privacy_file_aggregation_enabled => true,
  )

  post_install do |installer|
    react_native_post_install(
      installer,
      config[:reactNativePath],
      :mac_catalyst_enabled => false,
    )
  end
end
```

If your project already has a `Podfile`, you'll need to manually merge the React Native dependencies into your existing `Podfile`.

> Now run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, run the following command:
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ pod install']} />

> Running the Pod Command will integrate the React Native code in your application so that your iOS files can import the React Native headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the `pod` command will integrate the React Native code into your app, allowing your iOS files to import the React Native headers.
```

### Configuring your Xcode project

<Step label="1">
  Open your project on Xcode and from the project navigator, select your project and then select
  your app target under `TARGETS`. In `Build Settings`, using the search bar, search for
  `ENABLE_USER_SCRIPT_SANDBOXING`. If it is not already, set its value to `No`. This is needed to
  properly switch between the Debug and Release version of the [Hermes
  engine](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/blob/main/README.md) that is shipped with React Native.
</Step>

<Step label="2">

> Now switch to the `Build Phases` tab and add a new `Run Script Phase` before the `[CP] Embed Pods Frameworks` phase. This script will bundle your JavaScript code and assets into the iOS application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now switch to the **Build Phases** tab and add a new `Run Script Phase` before the `[CP] Embed Pods Frameworks` phase. This script will bundle your JavaScript code and assets into the iOS application.
```

fi

# The project root by default is one level up from the ios directory
export PROJECT_ROOT="$PROJECT_DIR"/..

if [[ "$CONFIGURATION" = *Debug* ]]; then
  export SKIP_BUNDLING=1
fi
if [[ -z "$ENTRY_FILE" ]]; then
  # Set the entry JS file using the bundler's entry resolution.
  export ENTRY_FILE="$("$NODE_BINARY" -e "require('expo/scripts/resolveAppEntry')" "$PROJECT_ROOT" ios absolute | tail -n 1)"
fi

if [[ -z "$CLI_PATH" ]]; then
  # Use Expo CLI
  export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require.resolve('@expo/cli', { paths: [require.resolve('expo/package.json')] })")"
fi
if [[ -z "$BUNDLE_COMMAND" ]]; then
  # Default Expo CLI command for bundling
  export BUNDLE_COMMAND="export:embed"
fi

# Source .xcode.env.updates if it exists to allow
# SKIP_BUNDLING to be unset if needed
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.updates" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.updates"
fi
# Source local changes to allow overrides
# if needed
if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
  source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
fi

`"$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('react-native/package.json')) + '/scripts/react-native-xcode.sh'"`
```

> Next time when you build your app for Release, the React Native code will be bundled using Expo CLI and embedded into the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next time, when you build your app for Release, the React Native code will be bundled using Expo CLI and embedded into the app.
```

</Step>

<Step label="3">

> Edit your `Info.plist` file and make sure to add the `UIViewControllerBasedStatusBarAppearance` key with value of `NO`, this is needed to ensure that the status bar is properly managed by React Native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit your **Info.plist** file and make sure to add the `UIViewControllerBasedStatusBarAppearance` key with a value of `NO`, this is needed to ensure that the status bar is properly managed by React Native.
```

```diff
+<key>UIViewControllerBasedStatusBarAppearance</key>
+<string>NO</string>
```

</Step>

### Integrating with your code

> We now need to add some native code in order to start the React Native runtime and tell it to render our React components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you need to add some native code to start the React Native runtime and tell it to render your React components.
```

#### Create the ReactViewController

> Create a new file called `ReactViewController.swift`, this will be the ViewController that loads a React Native view as it's `view`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file called **ReactViewController.swift**, this will be the `ViewController` that loads a React Native view as its `view`.
```

```diff title="ReactViewController.swift"
import UIKit
+import React
+import React_RCTAppDelegate
+import ReactAppDependencyProvider

class ReactNativeViewController: UIViewController {
+  var reactNativeFactory: RCTReactNativeFactory?
+  var reactNativeFactoryDelegate: RCTReactNativeFactoryDelegate?

  override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
+    reactNativeFactoryDelegate = ReactNativeDelegate()
+    reactNativeFactoryDelegate!.dependencyProvider = RCTAppDependencyProvider()
+    reactNativeFactory = RCTReactNativeFactory(delegate: reactNativeFactoryDelegate!)
+    view = reactNativeFactory!.rootViewFactory.view(withModuleName: "HelloWorld")

  }
}

+class ReactNativeDelegate: RCTDefaultReactNativeFactoryDelegate {
+    override func sourceURL(for bridge: RCTBridge) -> URL? {
+      self.bundleURL()
+    }
+
+    override func bundleURL() -> URL? {
+      #if DEBUG
+      RCTBundleURLProvider.sharedSettings().jsBundleURL(forBundleRoot: ".expo/.virtual-metro-entry")
+      #else
+      Bundle.main.url(forResource: "main", withExtension: "jsbundle")
+      #endif
+    }
+
+}
```

#### Presenting a React Native view in a rootViewController

> Finally, we can present our React Native view. To do so, we need a new View Controller that can host a view in which we can load the JS content.
> We already have the initial `ViewController`, and we can make it present the `ReactViewController`. There are several ways to do so, depending on your app. For this example, we assume that you have a button that presents React Native modally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can present your React Native view. To do so, you need a new View Controller that can host a view in which we can load the JS content. You already have the initial `ViewController`, and you can make it present the `ReactViewController`. There are several ways to do so, depending on your app. For this example, let's assume that you have a button that presents React Native modally.
```

class ViewController: UIViewController {

+  var reactViewController: ReactViewController?

  override func viewDidLoad() {
    super.viewDidLoad()
    // Do any additional setup after loading the view.
    self.view.backgroundColor = .systemBackground

+    let button = UIButton()
+    button.setTitle("Open React Native", for: .normal)
+    button.setTitleColor(.systemBlue, for: .normal)
+    button.setTitleColor(.blue, for: .highlighted)
+    button.addAction(UIAction { [weak self] _ in
+      guard let self else { return }
+      if reactViewController == nil {
+       reactViewController = ReactViewController()
+      }
+      present(reactViewController!, animated: true)
+    }, for: .touchUpInside)
+    self.view.addSubview(button)
+
+    button.translatesAutoresizingMaskIntoConstraints = false
+    NSLayoutConstraint.activate([
+      button.leadingAnchor.constraint(equalTo: self.view.leadingAnchor),
+      button.trailingAnchor.constraint(equalTo: self.view.trailingAnchor),
+      button.centerXAnchor.constraint(equalTo: self.view.centerXAnchor),
+      button.centerYAnchor.constraint(equalTo: self.view.centerYAnchor),
+    ])
  }
}
```

## Test your integration

> You have completed all the basic steps to integrate React Native with your application.
> Now run the following command in the react native directory to start the [Metro bundler](https://metrobundler.dev/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have completed all the basic steps to integrate React Native with your application. Now run the following command in the react native directory to start the [Metro bundler](https://metrobundler.dev/)
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ yarn start']} />

> Metro builds your TypeScript application code into a bundle, serves it through its HTTP server, and shares the bundle from `localhost` on your developer environment to a simulator or device, allowing for [hot reloading](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2016/03/24/introducing-hot-reloading).
> Now just build and run your app as normal, once you reach your React-powered Activity inside the app, it should load the JavaScript code from the development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metro builds your TypeScript application code into a bundle, serves it through its HTTP server, and shares the bundle from `localhost` on your developer environment to a simulator or device, allowing for [hot reloading](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2016/03/24/introducing-hot-reloading). Now you can build and run your app as normal. Once you reach your React-powered Activity inside the app, it should load the JavaScript code from the development server.
```

---
title: Integrating a React Native view into existing native apps
sidebar_title: Integrated approach
description: Add Expo and React Native to existing native apps using the "integrated" approach.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

React Native offers a flexible development strategy. Whether you're launching a new app or looking to integrate an existing native app, it provides a powerful solution. You can leverage its capabilities to introduce new features or views incrementally, allowing your team to adopt modern, cross-platform development without a complete rewrite.

This guide will walk you through the steps to add a React Native view into an existing native app using the "integrated" approach.

## Create an Expo project

> 

Author: Makes sense, I've added a small section about this

    <application
      android:name=".MainApplication">
    </application>
</manifest>
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">
Now in your **debug** **AndroidManifest.xml**, enable [cleartext traffic](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-config#CleartextTrafficPermitted):

```diff
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">

    <application
+       android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"
+       tools:targetApi="28"
    />
</manifest>
```

This is necessary for your app to communicate with your local [Metro bundler](https://metrobundler.dev/) via HTTP. You can use the **AndroidManifest.xml** files from the bare minimum template as a reference: [main](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum/android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml) and [debug](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum/android/app/src/debug/AndroidManifest.xml)

</Step>

### Integrating with your code

Now, you need to add some native code to start the React Native runtime and tell it to render your React components.

> #### Updating your Application class

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Updating your `Application` class
```

maybe to fix the vale warning

    'react-native-config',
    '--json',
    '--platform',
-    'ios'
+    'ios',
+    '--project-root',
+    project_root,
+    '--source-dir',
+    "#{__dir__}"
  ]

  use_react_native!(
    :path => config[:reactNativePath],
    :hermes_enabled => true,
    # An absolute path to your application root.
-    :app_path => "#{Pod::Config.instance.installation_root}/..",
+    :app_path => "#{project_root}",
    :privacy_file_aggregation_enabled => true,
  )
```

Now, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ pod install']} />

Running the `pod` command will integrate the React Native code into your app, allowing your iOS files to import the React Native headers.

### Configuring your Xcode project

<Step label="1">
  Open your project on Xcode and from the project navigator, select your project and then select
  your app target under `TARGETS`. In **Build Settings**, using the search bar, search for
  `ENABLE_USER_SCRIPT_SANDBOXING`. If it is not already, set its value to `No`. This is needed to
  properly switch between the Debug and Release versions of the [Hermes
  engine](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/blob/main/README.md) that is shipped with React Native.

> </Step>

Reviewer 2: maybe add a screenshot would help to explain the this better. xcode setting is sometimes too complicated to find where to set this up

<Step label="2">

> Now switch to the **Build Phases** tab and add a new `Run Script Phase` before the `[CP] Embed Pods Frameworks` phase. This script will bundle your JavaScript code and assets into the iOS application.

Reviewer 2: ditto - a screenshot would be better

Author: added

---
title: Integrating a React Native view into existing native apps
sidebar_title: Integrated approach
description: Add Expo and React Native to existing native apps using the "integrated" approach.
hideTOC: true
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

React Native offers a flexible development strategy. Whether you're launching a new app or looking to integrate an existing native app, it provides a powerful solution. You can leverage its capabilities to introduce new features or views incrementally, allowing your team to adopt modern, cross-platform development without a complete rewrite.

This guide will walk you through the steps to add a React Native view into an existing native app using the "integrated" approach.

> ## Before you start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

Let's rename this to use the standard section name we do in other docs.

To integrate React Native into your existing application, you'll need to set up a JavaScript development environment. This includes installing Node.js to run the Expo CLI and Yarn to manage the project's JavaScript dependencies.

> System requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We don't need this since the line above already explains the system requirements.

---
title: Integrating a React Native view into existing native apps
sidebar_title: Integrated approach
description: Add Expo and React Native to existing native apps using the "integrated" approach.
hideTOC: true
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

React Native offers a flexible development strategy. Whether you're launching a new app or looking to integrate an existing native app, it provides a powerful solution. You can leverage its capabilities to introduce new features or views incrementally, allowing your team to adopt modern, cross-platform development without a complete rewrite.

This guide will walk you through the steps to add a React Native view into an existing native app using the "integrated" approach.

## Prerequisites

To integrate React Native into your existing application, you'll need to set up a JavaScript development environment. This includes installing Node.js to run the Expo CLI and Yarn to manage the project's JavaScript dependencies.

> 
> - [Node.js (LTS)](https://nodejs.org/en/): The runtime to execute JavaScript code and Expo CLI.
> - [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/): A package manager for installing and managing JavaScript dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Node.js (LTS)](https://nodejs.org/en/): The runtime to execute JavaScript code and Expo CLI.
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/): A package manager for installing and managing JavaScript dependencies.
- **[iOS only]** [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/): one of the dependency management system available for iOS. CocoaPods is a Ruby [gem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RubyGems). You can install CocoaPods using the version of Ruby that ships with the latest version of macOS.

Learn more from the [Set up environment guide](/get-started/set-up-your-environment/).
```

add cocoapods and link to our setup environment guide
cc @amandeepmittal if you know we have any convention to represent the `[iOS only]` part

Reviewer: We do have `PlatformTag` that we can use here:

```md
- <PlatformTags platforms={['ios']} /> [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/): one of the dependency
  management system available for iOS. CocoaPods is a Ruby
  [gem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RubyGems). You can install CocoaPods using the version of Ruby
  that ships with the latest version of macOS.
```

This will render as shown below and include the Platform.

  
<img width="1086" height="282" alt="CleanShot 2025-09-05 at 19 08 35" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c40c710e-ca48-4665-bb8d-82eb40776f53" />

If you're using a custom folder structure, you need to explicitly set your project root in **Podfile** for autolinking to work. Modify the following lines in your **Podfile**:

```diff Podfile
+project_root = File.join(__dir__, 'exp')
+ENV['PROJECT_ROOT'] = project_root

target 'HelloWorld' do
-  use_expo_modules!
+  use_expo_modules!({ projectRoot: project_root })

config_command = [
    'npx',
    'expo-modules-autolinking',
    'react-native-config',
    '--json',
    '--platform',
-    'ios'
+    'ios',
+    '--project-root',
+    project_root,
+    '--source-dir',
+    "#{__dir__}"
  ]

  use_react_native!(
    :path => config[:reactNativePath],
    :hermes_enabled => true,
    # An absolute path to your application root.
-    :app_path => "#{Pod::Config.instance.installation_root}/..",
+    :app_path => "#{project_root}",
    :privacy_file_aggregation_enabled => true,
  )
```

Now, run the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ pod install']} />

Running the `pod` command will integrate the React Native code into your app, allowing your iOS files to import the React Native headers.

### Configuring your Xcode project

<Step label="1">

>   Open your project on Xcode and from the project navigator, select your project and then select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  After the `pod install` command, CocoaPods will create an Xcode workspace **{Project}.xcworkspace**, you will need to open the **xcworkspace** project than the traditional **xcodeproj** project. Alternatively, you can use the following command to open the project:

  <Terminal cmd={['$ xed exp/ios']} />

  In the Xcode project navigator, select your project and then select
```

---

> title: Integrating a React Native view into existing native apps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Get started
```

> sidebar_title: Integrated approach

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sidebar_title: Get started
```

Reviewer 3: let's just call this get started because it's our default approach and people aren't ready to decide anything yet.

> description: Add Expo and React Native to existing native apps using the "integrated" approach.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: A guide for adding Expo and React Native to existing native apps and adding a first view component.
```

hideTOC: true
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tabs, Tab } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { PlatformTag } from '~/ui/components/Tag/PlatformTag';

> React Native offers a flexible development strategy. Whether you're launching a new app or looking to integrate an existing native app, it provides a powerful solution. You can leverage its capabilities to introduce new features or views incrementally, allowing your team to adopt modern, cross-platform development without a complete rewrite.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
React Native and Expo are flexible and can be adopted incrementally, one screen (or even one view) at a time. You might even find that using Expo in this way is the best fit for your particular application, or you may end up slowly adopting it across more surfaces in your app. Either way, this flexibility allows enables developers to adopt modern, cross-platform tools in their native apps immediately instead of risking a complete rewrite.
```

> This guide will walk you through the steps to add a React Native view into an existing native app using the "integrated" approach.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through the steps to add a React Native view into an existing native app. The approach covered here is what we call the "integrated" approach, because React Native and Expo are integrated in the same way that you would any other library.

Another popular technique is what we call the "isolated" approach, where your Expo app is packaged as a library and treated as a black box by the main existing application. A guide for the isolated approach will be available shortly. Now, back to using the "integrated" approach in your existing native app.
```

## Prerequisites

> To integrate React Native into your existing application, you'll need to set up a JavaScript development environment. This includes installing Node.js to run the Expo CLI and Yarn to manage the project's JavaScript dependencies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To integrate React Native into your existing application, you'll need to set up a JavaScript development environment. This includes installing Node.js to run Expo CLI and Yarn to manage the project's JavaScript dependencies.
```

- [Node.js (LTS)](https://nodejs.org/en/): The runtime to execute JavaScript code and Expo CLI.
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/): A package manager for installing and managing JavaScript dependencies.
- <PlatformTag platform="ios" /> [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org/): one of the dependency
  management system available for iOS. CocoaPods is a Ruby
  [gem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RubyGems). You can install CocoaPods using the version of Ruby
  that ships with the latest version of macOS.

Learn more from the [Set up environment guide](/get-started/set-up-your-environment/).

## Create an Expo project

First, create an Expo project inside your existing native project's root directory.

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app exp']} />

> This command creates a new directory named **exp** that contains your new Expo project. While you can name the project anything, this guide uses **exp** for consistency. The new project includes an example TypeScript application to help you get started.

Reviewer 3: can we name this something else? i think using `exp` can be a bit confusing. even 'my-app' or 'my-project' might be a bit more clear. exp/expo/npx etc for people just coming to this all kind of blend together i imagine

Author: got it, we can rename it to `my-project`, which makes it really obvious that they should choose something else but might make things tricky because they can't name it `expo` or `react-native` because of the package names

## Set up your project structure

> A standard React Native project places native code in **android** and **ios** directories. This structure may not be feasible when integrating with a large, existing native app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A standard React Native project places native code in **android** and **ios** directories. This structure may not be ideal or even feasible when integrating with a large, existing native app.
```

> This guide covers two approaches: moving your native project files into the standard directories or setting up a monorepo.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two possible ways to accommodate this constraint: either move your native project files into the standard **android** and **ios** directories, or set up a monorepo.
```

> ### Approach 1: Move your existing native project files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Option 1: Move your existing native project files
```

Reviewer 3: saying "Option" here since we say "approach" above re: integrated vs isolated and i want to avoid confusing people.

that said, another way we could do this is to just document the default and say something like "Can't move your native projects to android and ios directories?" in a collapsible and then under that explain the monorepo alternative. i kind of prefer this approach because it's best to not force people to make a choice, and they can instead just read the instructions and see the alternative option. we should pick one approach and recommend it, and the other is just a fallback if that approach isn't preferred by those individuals. we can then also remove the paragraph that explains that "This guide covers two approaches ..."

for example:

> A standard React Native project places native code in **android** and **ios** directories. The specifics of how to do this depend on your project, but it could be as simple as creating the directories and moving your projects there. For example:
>
> (insert the tabs thing here)
>
> ˃ Can't move your native projects to android and ios directories?
> (insert other stuff here in collapsible)

Move your existing Android and iOS projects to the **android** or **ios** sub-directories, depending on the platform you are integrating with. For example:

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Android">

<Terminal cmd={['$ mkdir exp/android', '$ mv /path/to/your/android-project exp/android/']} />

</Tab>
<Tab label="iOS">

<Terminal cmd={['$ mkdir exp/ios', '$ mv /path/to/your/ios-project exp/ios/']} />

</Tab>
</Tabs>

> ### Approach 2: Set up a monorepo

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Option 2: Set up a monorepo
```

Setting up a monorepo will ensure that Android and iOS scripts will be able to invoke commands from Node libraries even with a custom folder structure. To set up a Yarn monorepo, create a **package.json** file at the root of your project and add the following content:

```json package.json
{
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "workspaces": ["exp"]
}
```

Then run `yarn install` to install the dependencies. This will ensure **node_modules** are installed at the root of your project, and that native scripts can interact with React Native code. Make sure to change `["exp"]` to the name of the Expo project you created in the previous step.

> **info** Opting for a monorepo requires you to configure a custom project root, in Gradle/CocoaPods. This will be covered in the next sections.

## Configuring your native project

<Tabs tabs={["Configuring Android", "Configuring iOS"]}>
<Tab>

To integrate React Native on Android, you need to configure the native project by modifying the following files:

- **Gradle files**: **settings.gradle**, top-level **build.gradle**, **app/build.gradle**, and **gradle.properties** to add the React Native Gradle Plugin (RNGP) and other properties.

> - **AndroidManifest.xml**: To add necessary permissions.

Reviewer 3: it might be worth adding ([learn more](...)) to the permissions line and just linking to the heading on the section that discusses it below. my first reaction when seeing this is - what permissions and why? which are explained below, but i expect lots of people will wonder the same thing and want to have an explanation immediately available

  id("com.facebook.react.settings")
  id("expo-autolinking-settings")
}

extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension) { ex ->
  ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(expoAutolinking.rnConfigCommand)
}
expoAutolinking.useExpoModules()

// rootProject.name = 'HelloWorld'

expoAutolinking.useExpoVersionCatalog()

includeBuild(expoAutolinking.reactNativeGradlePlugin)
// Include your existing Gradle modules here.
// include(":app")
```

If you're using a custom folder structure, you need to explicitly set your project root in **settings.gradle** for autolinking to work. Modify the following lines:

```diff settings.gradle
+expoAutolinking {
+  projectRoot = new File(rootDir, "exp")
+}

extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension) { ex ->
-  ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(expoAutolinking.rnConfigCommand)
+  ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(expoAutolinking.rnConfigCommand, file(rootDir), files("yarn.lock"))
}
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">
Then open your top-level **build.gradle** and include this line (as suggested from the [bare minimum template](https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/templates/expo-template-bare-minimum/android/build.gradle)):

> ```diff build.gradle

Reviewer 3: can we update these to use our diff components like on https://docs.expo.dev/bare/upgrade/?fromSdk=52&toSdk=53?
